<div id='easy_node-autogenerated' markdown='1'>


<!-- do not edit this file, autogenerated -->

## Package information 

[Link to package on Github](github:org=duckietown,repo=Software,path=00-infrastructure/easy_node,branch=master18)

### Essentials {nonumber="1"}

Author: [Andrea Censi](mailto:acensi@idsc.mavt.ethz.ch) (maintainer)

### Description {nonumber="1"}


`easy_node` is a framework to make it easier to create and document ROS nodes.

The main idea is to provide a *declarative approach* to describe:

- The node parameters;
- The node's subscriptions;
- The node's publishers;
- The node's assumptions (contracts).

The user describes subscriptions, publishers, and parameters in a YAML file.

The framework then automatically takes care of:

- Calling the necessary boilerplate ROS commands for subscribing and publishing topics.
- Loading and monitoring configuration.
- Create the Markdown documentation that describes the nodes.
- Provide a set of common functionality, such as benchmarking and monitoring latencies.

Using `easy_node` allows to cut 40%-50% of the code required for programming
a node. For an example, see the package [`line_detector2`](#line_detector2),
which contains a re-implementation of  `line_detector` using the new framework.

**Transition plan**: The plan is to first use `easy_node` just for
documenting the nodes. Then, later, convert all the nodes to use it.




</div>

<!-- file start -->

<div id='easy_node-easy_node-autogenerated' markdown='1'>


<!-- do not edit this file, autogenerated -->

(Generated from [configuration `easy_node.easy_node.yaml`](github:org=duckietown,repo=Software,path=easy_node.easy_node.yaml,branch=master18).)

These are properties common to all nodes.

### Parameters {nonumber="1"}

No parameters defined.

### Subscriptions {nonumber="1"}

No subscriptions defined.

### Publishers {nonumber="1"}

No publishers defined.



</div>